Python Club Operations Manual Section One: Activities & Travel 1.)	Our club participates in the ISU Hackathon, every semester, and we are also open to various Coding competitions, although we don?t typically participate in coding competitions unless a member has interest, and brings it to the attention of the officers.  The Python Club does not host any events of their own at this time, but this is always open to discussion. If you have a Python related idea, and would like the backing of the Python Club, please contact the president, and express your interest. 2.)	Our club does not travel as part of any annual activity, but if there is some sort of event, and members wish to attend, traveling options are available. Transportation is dependent on the members of the club. This means if you want to attend an event that requires transportation, you must ask a member for transport, or find a way to provide your own. Section Two: Equipment & Emergency Protocols 1.)	The club is currently not responsible for any equipment, nor do they have any equipment to provide to their members. This may change in the future as the club obtains more income, at which point this document will be updated, but currently all members should have their own computers, or at least access to computers. 2.)	There are no risks associated with day-to-day club events, but in the situation of traveling to other events, all members assume their own responsibility. Assuming you are a person providing transportation to other members, we suggest you require the transportees to sign a liability waiver, and then give this waiver to the President of the club, but understand a liability waiver will not cover everything. Reckless, or intentional actions can never be disclaimed. The club will make copies of this waiver, and provide them to the club advisor through email. The advisor will then act as a witness in the case that anything should happen.  An example liability waiver can be found at the bottom of this document. If you wish, you may copy it, and fill in the necessary blanks.  If we travel, this means as a member, one must either provide his or her own transportation, or ask someone else for transportation. In the event you ask another person for transportation, you assume all responsibility for yourself by getting into their vehicle. The Python Club does not have any officer responsible for risk management, and due to this, everyone should think consciously, and sincerely about any risks they plan on taking in regard to club activities. If one wishes to travel, please understand the risks involved. Section Three: Finances & Fundraising1.)	All club budget is maintained by the club Treasurer. The Python Club has no guaranteed income, but in the event of a special interest, the club President may ask the members to provide a fee. The fee would be small in nature, and upon collection, would permit the club resources that they would not have without the fee. As stated, the club does not have any guaranteed budget, but upon a monetary exchange, the Treasurer is required to be present, and responsible for the transactions. The Treasurer understands that prior to signing any contracts for monetary exchanges they should notify both the President of the club, and the Director of Student Activities. Upon a monetary exchange, all following club transactions must be approved a club meetings by a majority of the officers. The event will take place as follows: 	1.) The president moves a proposed spending, and asks for a vote. 	2.) Officers of the club who support the decision will raise their hand. 3.) Hand raises will be counted, and if the result is a majority of the officers present, then the proposed spending will be approved. 	The club does not currently have any account, but should one be created, this page will be updated. Currently all spending is managed through club members, and all monies are maintained by the treasurer, who either holds the money on their person, or stores it in a specified area. The area can be any place, as long as it is brought to the intention of the club in a meeting, and approved by a majority of the members. The vote takes place in a typical fashion, those for will raise their hands, those against will not. If a majority has their hands raised, the proposed action will be approved, the money will be stored in the specified location, and the president will make note.  2.)	The Python Club currently does not have any annual fundraising events, but should one be created, this page will be updated. Currently all fundraising ideas are maintained by the Philanthropy officer. Proposed fundraising ideas are approved by a majority officer vote in a committee meeting, and resulting action follows. Section Four: Marketing & Meeting Schedule 1.)	Currently all club marketing will take place on the ISU hosted club website. There are no ideas of flyers being posted, or additional websites being created. Should the club wish to create a website, they must contact the Student Activities Center for advisement. Club meetings will be a weekly event. Club space is reserved at least a week in advance, and members will be notified by email from the president regarding the meeting space, and events to be discussed for each week. The club meetings will always be on campus, and the meeting room is to be reserved by the President. To find meeting information, view our website at http://www.stuorg.iastate.edu/site/2625. (Note: should the website change, this will be updated). Section Five: Advisor Coach & Affiliation 1.)	Weekly meetings with the club advisor are not necessary, but are encouraged. The President is required to meet with the advisor on all issues concerning Liability forms, or unsure policy discussions. This means that if the club is unsure about a policy, such as using poster as form of advertisement, they should either consult with the advisor, or the Student Activities Center. One of the two will be able to provide an answer. Also, whenever a new president is appointed, it is pertinent that the current advisor be notified, and the two find a time to sit and discuss club events, previous policies, and typical work flow. 2.)	The Python club is currently not affiliated with any college or department at Iowa State University, nor any outside or inside organization.  Should any affiliation be created in the future, this page, and the web page will both be updated. The web page should be updated to include a link to the affiliated organization, in whatever way is seen fit by the president. Liability Waiver I _______________________ assume full liability for all events, which I plan to participate in from the dates of _______________________________ until 	____________________________________________. The event in particular is called _______________________________________________.I ____________________________________________understand my actions are not the responsibility of the Python Club, nor the willing volunteer __________________________________________________ who has agreed to provide me with transportation. I am thankful for the offer of transportation I received from _________________________________________, and am only traveling as a result of my own personal interest.  Nobody has forced me, or coerced me in any way. The below signatures affirm full willing participation of the subjects. Participant ______________________________________________________Driver __________________________________________________________Witness to Signatures _____________________________________________________