The Python Development      Club Constitution Article I: Python Development Club:The name of this organization shall be the Python Development Club, and shall be established at Iowa State University. Article II Purpose: The purpose of this organization is to better prepare students and individuals with interest in programming. The need for this comes primarily from a lack of low-level undergraduate Python Programming courses. The scope of our organization?s activities shall include weekly meetings, participation in campus events such as Hackathons, and we shall be affiliated with other Engineering/Programming organizations interested in sharing knowledge for the purpose of facilitating an education in computer languages. This includes things such as Tech Conferences. Article III Statement of Compliance:  ?The Python Development Club abides by and supports established Iowa State University policies, State and Federal Laws and follows local ordinances and regulations.  The Python Development Club agrees to annually complete President?s Training, Treasurer?s Training and Adviser Training (if required)?.Article IV Non-Discrimination Statement:?Iowa State University Python Development Club members do not discriminate on the basis of genetic information, pregnancy, physical or mental disability, race, ethnicity, sex, color, religion, national origin, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or status as a U.S Veteran?.Article V Membership: Membership is open to all students, and all public members whom feel they can contribute, and maintain a positive standing among the group. Article VI: Risk Management: The Python Development Club will appoint a Risk Management officer at the beginning of each new semester. The role of the risk management officer is to [a] help minimize potential risks for club activities, [b] recommend risk management policies or procedures to (name of student organization), [c] to submit documentation to ISU?s Risk Management Office and [d] to ensure that Iowa State University policies are followed at all of the organization?s events and [e] to ensure that proper waivers and background checks are on file with Risk Management for events (if applicable).Article VII Officers:  "The officers of this organization must meet the following requirements:(a) Be in good standing with the university and enrolled: at least half time (six or more credit hours), if an undergraduate student (unless fewer credits are required to graduate in the spring and fall semesters) during the term of office, and at least half time (four or more credits), if a graduate level student (unless fewer credits are required in the final stages of their degree as defined by the Continuous Registration Requirement) during their term of office. (b) Have a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) as stated below and meet that minimum GPA in the semester immediately prior to the election/appointment, the semester of election/appointment and semesters during the term of office. For undergraduate, graduate, and professional students, the minimum GPA is 2.00. In order for this provision to be met, at least six hours (half-time credits) must have been taken for the semester under consideration.(c) Be ineligible to hold an office should the student fail to maintain the requirements as prescribed in (a) and (b)."Officer Requirements:All club officers are required to adhere to Iowa State University policies, respect the law, the faculty, and the staff, as well as maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.0. Upon falling below a 2.0 GPA officers are give a semester of academic probation, after which if their GPA is still below a 2.0, they will be removed from their position. Impeachment: Impeachment is a process, which can take place upon a majority committee decision. This means more than half of the committee must agree it is necessary. If someone would like to initiate an impeachment hearing, they must notify the president, and the president will set up a private meeting to discuss the circumstances. After which, the committee member facing trial for impeachment will be invited to a second meeting where the vote will take place, in front of them. Everyone should be given fair time to speak, and explain their reasoning. If a member is impeached, they may continue to apply for other membership positions, unless that member proves to be disruptive or hinder some to the club.If a member proves to be overly disruptive, and refuses to leave the club, school authorities are to be notified, and no action is to be taken until the appropriate official is made aware of the situation. Appropriate officials include school officers, and Student Organization full time staff. Officer Elections: 	Officer?s will be elected at the end of every Semester, and will hold their post through the following semester. The method of election will be a vote. In the final meetings of each semester the President will present a list of available officer positions, and send out an application form to all members. Anyone may apply to be an officer. Upon doing so, they will prepare a speech at the election meeting, and then leave the room. A vote will be placed, after which the running candidates will return to the room, and be informed of the decision. Officer Replacement: Should an officer resign or be removed from their position for whatever reason, a standard election will be held. Although in this case, no written applications will be sent out. Instead a meeting will be held, and members will be notified by email of the current position. Candidates will attend the meeting, and the President will ask for nominations. People may nominate themselves, or someone else. All nominees but accept the nominations, and then will be asked to give a brief speech in regards to why they would be a good fit. After all respective candidates finish speaking, they will be asked to wait outside while the members vote on each candidate one at a time by simple hand raising. The candidate who receives the most support will be elected. All running candidates will be invited back into the room, and informed of the decision. Officer Duties and Terms of Service: 	President: In charge of delegating official business, declaring agendas, and maintaining contact with all members. This includes creating mailing lists, notifiying members of upcoming meetings, and creating weekly agendas. The president will also act as a community outreach member by participating in other engineering clubs, and spreading the word about PDC, and available opportunities. 	Treasurer: In charge of maintaining club finances. Allocating money, notifying the president of upcoming purchases, and tallying the budget. 	Campus Liaison: This officer is in charge of ensuring the group adheres to Iowa State policies. This includes following all campus rules and regulations, as well as maintaining a concrete understanding of Campus regulations. This means if a new rule is added or removed, it is this member?s job to be aware, and inform the President, as well as convey the information to the rest of the group. 	Webmaster: In charge of maintaining the group website. Specifically uploading photos, and biographies, while ensuring it stays up and running. This person will also be in charge of tracking weekly minutes. 	Lead Developer: This is an individual with a strong grasp of Python programming, who is willing to prepare problems, and work schedules for the group. For instance this individual might create a mock Python/flask application, and present it at a weekly meeting. Or be the individual whom members contact for help with some sort of bug, or programming difficulty. 	Developer: This person will assist the lead developer in planning out projects and creating ideas. They will work directly with the Lead Developer, post code to GitHub, and help out in any way they see fit. 	Lead Unix Developer: This person is responsible for having a full grasp and understanding of the Unix language. Specifically they will be necessary when people need help with terminal commands for executing, and building python applications. This person will have at least a firm understanding of Unix, and understand the Windows OS. 		GitHub Master: This officer will give at least one presentation on using GIT at one of the earlier meetings. GitHub will be where we store all our code and repositories, so members will need to know how to access this in order to keep up with the group?s pace. The GitHub Master will answer questions about accessing repositories, email members about new commits, and have a full understanding of GitHub and all its functionality. This includes cloning, pulls, pushes, commits, creating branches, and setting up repositories. 	Event Coordinator: This individual will be in charge of coordinating PDC events, whatever they may be. These could include Coding Competition Challenges, Web Application Contest submissions, etc. If the club decides on sponsoring an event, the event coordinator will handle a majority of the work associated with communication, publicity, and maintenance. 	Philanthropy: This officer will brainstorm and create fundraising events for the club. They?re primary goal will be to raise money for future projects and events. Article VIII Adviser: Duties: 	The club adviser will work particularly with the Campus Liaison and club President to make sure the club is following campus policies. Selection: The Adviser will be hand chosen by the president, and will not need to go through a normal election process.Replacement:  If the Adviser can suddenly no longer complete their job, or must resign for any reason, it will be the President?s responsibility to elect a new adviser. Impeachment: If the adviser does not wish to leave their position but is doing a poor job, impeachment may occur with a major committee vote, which is the normal process. After which it will be the committee?s job to choose a new advisor.Term?s of Service:  The advisor will serve a regular semester term similar to the officers, and will not be required to go through a reelection process. If they wish to continue they must simply ask the president, upon which the president will either grant the request, or deny the request and choose someone else. Article IX Finances: This club will not require dues from any of its members. ?		"All monies belonging to this organization shall be deposited and disbursed through a bank account established for this organization at the Campus Organizations Accounting Office and/or approved institution/office (must receive authorization via Campus Organizations Accounting Office). All funds must be deposited within 48 hours after collection. The Adviser to this organization must approve and sign each expenditure before payment."Upon Termination of the Club: 		All money remaining in the club account will be gifted to another student organization. The decision about which organization will be made with a committee meeting. Multiple proposals will be made, and the proposal to receive the most votes, shall be gifted the money. Upon a transfer our treasurer will contact the other group?s treasurer, and notify them of the situation. After which arrangements will be made for the account to be transferred into their funds, which simply requires authorization from the other group. The treasurer will handle this. Article X: The President shall be held responsible for making sure no amendments are made to the constitution, and the constitution is followed by all members, except in the case of a committee meeting when the officers decide on an appropriate amendment as described below. 	Amendments: 	Amendments & Ratifications can be made to this constitution only at official committee meetings. These meetings will consist of the group?s officers. They will discuss possible amendments, and upon reaching an agreement, alter the constitution to fit their newfound needs. Upon any changes to the constitution, the amended or ratified constitution should be submitted within 10 days to the Student Activities Center for approval.